So, guys, now let us discuss the solution to reconcile dependency problem, so we had a source file
ANC, so in the source file you need to write something which is called forward declaration of a structure.
So the formal declaration simply means that type out the name of the structure as it is.
So just type out the name of the structure, followed by semicolon.
So this is called forward declaration.
And forward declaration means that you are telling the compiler that there is some structure called
a struct O.S.S. underscore T and this is structure definition will be defined in future.
So compiler, please don't read it if it is used as a pointer.
Right.
And this is called forward declaration.
So by writing this line, you are actually telling the compiler that this structure definition will
be encountered somewhere later in the source file if you encounter the.
Point usage of this structure, please tolerate it.
So now let us see what does it mean?
So now you can see that I have changed this line from complete usage to pointer usage, that is the
implied structure is now using the structure occupation as a pointer usage instead of complete usage.
So now if the compiler compiles the source file from top to bottom, now, the compiler will be able
to compile the definition of a structure and apply because now the compiler knows.
The size of each member field of this structure, so the size of the name field will be 32 bites, the
size of employee 80 field will be four bites.
And as we know that the size of all the variables on the 32 bit machine is four bytes and on a 64 bit
machine is eight bytes.
So now you can see that the compiler knows the size of each member field of the structure employee and
has the compiler will be able to compile the definition of this structure.
Now, at this point of completion in the source file, the compiler has already seen the definition
of structure implied.
Right.
So there is no problem with the complete usage of structure employee in the structure occupation and
hence the compiler will be able to compile the structure definition of occupation structure.
So you can see that we have broken the records of dependency by using the pointer usage instead of complete
usage, and one additional thing that we need to do is to declare the forward declaration of the structure
whose definition the compiler will not see before its usage while compiling the source file from top
to bottom.
So as a result, if you compile the source file, Edward S. now, it will compile.
So now let us see the demonstration.
So here you can see that on the right hand side, we had the same version of Old File, a ANC which
was suffering from the problem of recursive dependency.
So now let us make the chord changes, which we have just discussed so you can see that I have defined
the forward declaration of the structure occupation and I have changed the usage of this structure from
complete 2.0 usage.
Right.
And now I will compile this file and you can see that the file compiles.
So this was recursive dependancy for you, please take care of that while designing your project, avoid
designing your data structures in a way that introduces recursive dependency.
And if your application design is such that that you cannot avoid the recursive dependency, then use
the concept of forward declaration in order to get to the problem of recursive dependency.